---
cgp: 0063P
title: <CGP title>
date-created: <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
author: <a list of the author's or authors' name(s) and/or username(s), or name(s) and email(s), e.g. (use with the parentheses or triangular brackets): FirstName LastName (@GitHubUsername), FirstName LastName <foo@bar.com>, FirstName (@GitHubUsername) and GitHubUsername (@GitHubUsername)>
status: <DRAFT | PROPOSED | EXECUTED | EXPIRED | WITHDRAWN>
discussions-to: <link to discussion on forum.celo.org>
governance-proposal-id: [if submitted]
date-executed: [if executed] <date created on, in ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd) format>
---
## Overview




## Objective
Connect with Celo and its projects, giving visibility to Bitcoin Market customers and the Celo Brasil Community.

## About Mercado Bitcoin 
Mercado Bitcoin is an exchange that operates in Brazil, with a focus on Latin America and has more than 3.8 million customers and more than 200 digital assets, including NFTs.
We are among the 25 most trusted exchanges in the world. 
Creator of the KYC and AML best practices in the Brazilian market.
More than  USD 15 billion in trading volume since 2013.
450  employees contributing to build the new economy at Mercado Bitcoin.
8 years as custodian without security breaches
Mercado Bitcoin is a multi-solutions crypto, blockchain, web 3 and regulatory infrastructure, building the future of the new digital economy.
Becoming part of the restrict unicorn startups group in LatAm and the only Brazilian Company among the 102  Blockchain unicorns in the world.
We have the Blockchain Academy, our education arm that is continuously looking for innovation.
Currently in partnership and support with the Central Bank in building the regulation of the cryptocurrency sector in Brazil.

Site: https://www.mercadobitcoin.com.br/en/

## Projects
### Celo asset listing
Listing of the CELO asset on the Bitcoin Market platform for more than 3.8 million customers to negotiate the purchase and sale of the asset.

### cReal asset listing
Listing of the cReal asset on the Bitcoin Market platform for more than 3.8 million customers to negotiate the purchase and sale of the asset, in addition to being the reward offered in the Learn to Earn program.

### Learn to earn program
MB will be the 1st exchange in Latin America to offer an educational rewards program for users from all over Brazil to learn more about crypto assets and earn assets, which is directly aligned with the LatAm Celo community needs of usability and circulation of cReal

### What?
Learn to Earn is an educational program where each user can receive cryptocurrency rewards after watching and answering questions about the specific network or asset. The purpose of Learn to Earn is to provide knowledge to users who participate in the program in order to learn more about the Celo ecosystem and its projects. In this way, the user will have more knowledge about the crypto market and about the protocol, purposes and principles of the network. 

#### How it works?
We intend to educate Bitcoin Market customers, with quality content developed in partnership with Celo, making the cReal and Celo assets available as a reward for each completed program.
Each user will be able to watch one of the two videos and then answer a quiz with questions about the content watched.
Then, the user will receive a reward within the Bitcoin Market platform, being able to use their wallet the way they want.

#### Reward distribution:
10 cReal for each user for studying cReal program content and 3 Celo for each user for studying  Celo program content.



#### What are the criteria to participate in Learn-to-Earn?
For anyone who has registered on the Bitcoin Market platform in the VIP mode. If you are not a VIP user, just update your registration on the MB platform.


## Budget:
This CGP is requesting 228000 Celo and 1000000 cREAL  from the on-chain governance Community Fund.
The funds will be divided into: 
 Learn to Earn rewards
 internal and external marketing costs, for the dissemination of the Learn to Earn program, on the main press and social media platforms, in addition to the disclosure of the Celo and cREAL  asset listing
The distribution model is detailed in the tables below.

**Disclaimer:** Distribution and marketing cells (highlighted in green) are fixed numbers. Celo amount can change due to CELO/BRL, Celo/USD or USD/BRL price changes.



| CELO         | Distribution | Active quantity | Total BRL| Total USD |
|--------------|--------------|-----------------|-----------|------------|
| Total        |              | 228000          | 600000 |          114000  |
| Marketing  | `33%`       | 76000     | `200000`  |     38000       |
| L2E Reward   | `66%`       | 152000     | 400000  |    76000        |
| Celo/USD     | 0.5         |                 |           |            |

| CREAL        | Distribution | Active quantity | Total BRL | Total USD |
|--------------|--------------|-----------------|-----------|------------|
| Total        |              | 1000000         | 1000000 |      190000      |
| Marketing  | `20%`       | 200000     | `200000`  |      38000      |
| L2E Reward   | `80%`       | 800000     | 800000 |     152000       |
| cREAL/USD    | 0.19       |                 |           |            |

## Timeline
Listing of Celo scheduled for Dec/22 - Jan/23
CReal listing scheduled for Jan/23
Learn to Earn Program with CReal reward: Jan/23
